Written project
Vitaly Repin. Project Plan Part II: Motivation
March 2014.
%!encoding: UTF-8
%!style(tex) : a4wide

== Objective ==

Gamification system objective is to reduce annual health costs. The project will be considered as successful if the savings are above 94 million USD annually.

== Target behavior ==

Improve the average physical fitness of city employees by 5%.
It will save 188 million USD annually. As our goal is to save 94 million USD
or more, it means that the budget for financing the gamification project can
be taken from the rest of savings (approximately 93 million USD).

== Project summary ==

=== Measurable criterias of success ===

- N% of the employees overweight, N < 34.4%
- M% of the employees obese, M < 33.9%
- P% of the employees meet the US Physical Activity Guidelines for aerobic physical activity, P > 48%
- Q% of the employees meet the US Guidelines for muscle-strengthening activity, Q > 24%.


Concrete values of N, M, P, Q to be defined on a later stage of the project planning.

=== Participants ===
Target auditory for the project are city employees. Total number: 50,000. We need to address both men and women.
Participation in the project is completely voluntary.

== Motivational tools ==

There are different ways to decrease the weight. System will suggest two preferrable pathes: diets and excercises. Playes can combine the activity from both paths in order to achive the
better results.

The ultimate goal is to change the lifestyle to be healthier. External motivators will be used as a temporary measure.

=== Point system ===

Point system is established to track the personal and team achievements.

=== Leaderboard ===

- Global leaderboard of the teams (see below)
- Personal custoimized leaderboard reflects the person's position in his/her team


=== Progress bars ===

Progress bars are established which show how close the person is to his/her goal. They also shows recommendations on achieving the goals.

=== Badges ===

System of badges to be developed to track different achievements in moving to the healthier lifestyle.  E.g.:

- For regular visits to the gym
- For accomplishing the team goals
- For being on track with the team goals and contributing to them more than others (shall come as a surprise for the players but it will be calculated according to the algorithm)

Badges are used as Status, Access and Stuff extrinsic motivators. All the badges are shareable.


=== Team work ===

Teams are formed from different cuty departments. They can collectively set their goal for the specific time period (e.g., "Average weight should be X lbs. in one month").
Achieving the planned result gives the unique "Team achievement badge" and adds 200 points to the accounts of every team member.

The three best teams of the months are rewarded by the prize (e.g., one paid vacation day for every team memeber during next month).


== Project PR ==

Important part of the project launch is to communicate properly its goals to the employees. It shoule be presented as a game like activity to help them to be healthier.

It allows to influence their internal motivation and to help to move them from extrinsic motivators to intrinsic using the following motivation curve:

+ Introjection
+ Identification
+ Integration
